# Wisconsin-Breast-Cancer-Data
This project analyzes the data from the Wisconsin Breast Cancer dataset. It replaces the missing values using mean imputation, implements k-means algorithm and then analyzes the quality of the clustering. A final report PDF is attached to visualize the data.

Extended version:
This project implements the k-means algorithm for the Wisconsin Breast Cancer data set while using Python. The project fills in missing values, adds a predicted class and then applies an error statement to the predicted class.
Phase 1 consisted of downloading the breast cancer data into Python. Certain values were missing in column A7 and needed to be replaced to further analyze. To replace the missing values, the mean imputation method was used. This was done by using the fillna() function. Once the missing values were replaced, the mean, median, standard deviation and variance of each of the attributes A2 to A10 were found using built in Python functions. Each column’s results were rounded to one decimal place and printed.
In Phase 2, k-means algorithm was implemented. Using the dataset used and adjusted in Phase 1, we used k-means computation on columns A2 to A10. In this phase, two initial centroids were to be chosen at random, which is reflected by the programming. Once the centroids were chosen, they are displayed with their values from column A2 to A10. A new column is created called the Predicted Class. Each of the 699 data points were computed for their Euclidian distance from the initial centroids. Each point would fall into one of the two predicted clusters (or class). If the distance of the data point was closer from mu2 to mu4, it would be assigned to Predicted Class = 2, and vice versa. The phase would assign each data point to a cluster, then update the centroids. This would happen until the centroids did not change from their previous iteration or until the steps were iterated 50 times. The results were then printed.
In Phase 3, the quality of the clustering was analyzed. This was done by calculating the error rate of the clusters. There were two clusters, benign and malign cells. This phase found the error rate for the
benign cells, malign cells, and total error rate. Using the definitions and formulae stated in the instructions, we can calculate the error rates. 
